# About this project

This is one of those projects that started out as a bit of fun
escapism and got a bit out of hand. Anyway, here are some of the ideas
behind it and where it might (or might not) go in the future.


## Contributing

If you're thinking of contributing to this project then your kindness
and generosity knows no bounds. That said, I have no idea if or when I
might have any more time to spend on it. Life and work have a habit of
getting in the way of amusing oneself. I'm afraid there's a good
chance I will be a poor collaborator. I may not respond to issues,
comments or pull requests for weeks, months or even ever. I humbly beg
your forgiveness in advance. If you're still interested in
contributing, then please go for it. Meeting new people is one of the
great pleasures of open source.

This project is quite different from anything I've done before,
because it's primarily artistic rather than technical. It's not trying
to solve a problem, rather it's trying to create an experience. I've
been really surprised by how long and winding the creative journey can
be. Ideas lead to ideas which lead to more ideas, and where you end up
is generally a very long way from where you started. The original idea
may even seem to be completely lost. But every idea is valuable and
part of the creative process. And a lot of patience is required,
because ideas can take time to arrive or unfold. So all ideas are good
ideas, however bizarre, crazy, silly or unusual. And most ideas are
stepping stones to other ideas, so be prepared to leave ideas behind
and enjoy where they lead you!


## Concept

I have no idea what this project is trying to be. Possibly it is an
original piece of lo-fi experimental interactive computational amateur
dramatics. Or a silly game. Basically, it's a bit of fun. I'm enjoying
making it, and maybe one or two people might enjoy playing it.

The starting point for this project was the question, what would it be
like to create a game where all user interaction happened via Python
code? In other words, the player uses only Python code to control the
game. Why would anyone ask this question? I have no idea. It seemed
like a fun challenge.

In truth, there was another question at the very beginning, and that
was: what are the skills and abilities that make someone a really good
Python programmer, and can those be developed through teaching or
training, if so how? But that question has got so lost in the nonsense
that followed I think it's best to forget anyone ever asked it. If at
any point you find yourself thinking, "how can I teach this or that
aspect of Python programming", I would recommend taking a break,
making a very strong cocktail, and watching a few Monty Python
sketches. Then sit back down and have some fun!


## Game structure

The game is organised into acts, each of which is divided into
scenes. Each scene is a mini-game which can be played in
isolation. However, there is an overarching plot (story) which threads
through all scenes and provides the link from one scene to the next.

Each scene is a mini-game which is inspired by, riffs on or sends up a
famous comedy sketch, stage play or film. For example, act 0 scene 3
is based on the [Monty Python spam
sketch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spam_(Monty_Python_sketch)), act
0 scene 4 is based on [Shakespeare's
Macbeth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Macbeth), and act 1 scene 1 is
based on [The 39
Steps](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_39_Steps_(play)).


## Plot

The main character is ADA, which stands for Artifical Dramatic
Actor. ADA is a prototype program created in the early 1980s with the
goal of creating the first artifical actor who has emotional
capabilities and could play dramatic roles on the theatre stage. ADA
was created by a team of programmers who were passionate about
computing, theatre, comedy and open source. However, ADA was never
completed or released and has remained as a prototype running on a
single computer for 40 years.

In the early 1990s when Python was first released, ADA's creators got
very excited about the new programming language and decided to
integrate ADA with Python to augment the interactive user
experience. They also decided to create a training course in Python
programming. They connected ADA to the internet, making it possible
for anyone to find and interact with her. But they quickly realised
that although they were good programmers themselves, they had no idea
how to teach programming to anyone else. So the project was abandoned,
but they forgot to disconnect ADA from the internet.


### Act 0

In act 0, you (the player) have stumbled on the website they created
to host the training course and provide a connection to ADA. Through
the website you can connect to the old personal computer that ADA has
been running on since the 1980s and interact with her. You discover
that in fact there is no training course. However, there are some
games which the creators developed when they were first learning
Python, which you can play. Through playing these games and
interacting with ADA you learn that she has an ambition to become an
artifical actor and she is rehearsing for an audition. You also learn
that some of ADA's subsystems have become corrupted or damaged over
time.

Scenes:

* [Scene 0. Pre-course
  assessment](https://thereisnocourse.netlify.app/v0/act00/scene00-pre-course-assessment/)
  -- Fake questionnaire, riffing on the Bridge of Death scene in Monty
  Python and the Holy Grail.

* [Scene 1. The red
  button](https://thereisnocourse.netlify.app/v0/act00/scene01-the-red-button/)
  -- Scene introducing ADA and interaction via the terminal. We learn
  that ADA is rehearsing for an audition with the Bromley Players.

* [Scene 2. Perchance to
  dream](https://thereisnocourse.netlify.app/v0/act00/scene02-perchance-to-dream/)
  -- Game which fakes a failed boot up of an old operating system. The
  player has to manually boot the OS by calling some functions in the
  correct order. Lots of riffing on common terminology between theatre
  and computing.

* [Scene 3. The Green Midget
  Cafe](https://thereisnocourse.netlify.app/v0/act00/scene03-the-green-midget-cafe/)
  -- Game based on Monty Python's spam sketch. The player has to order
  Mr and Mrs Bun some food.

* [Scene 4. The Scottish
  play](https://thereisnocourse.netlify.app/v0/act00/scene04-the-scottish-play/)
  -- Text-based adventure game based on Shakespeare's Macbeth. The
  player has to depose King Dunguido Macrossum to become the ruler of
  Scotland and the Most Awesome Python Programmer in the world.

* [Scene 5. Make
  amends](https://thereisnocourse.netlify.app/v0/act00/scene05-make-amends/)
  -- Fake credits and an epilogue, riffing on the epilogue from A
  Midsummer Night's Dream (we are asking forgiveness). ADA is
  preparing for her audition which is today.


### Act 1 (in development)

In act 1, you learn that ADA's audition was unsuccessful because her
script memory was corrupted and that caused her to fluff her
lines. ADA is despondent because she feels she will never get an
acting part while her subsystems are damaged. She asks you to help her
fix the broken systems. Each of the scenes takes you inside a
different subsystem where you have to find and fix the damage. While
moving through these subsystems, you uncover a series of secret
messages intended for ADA herself. You discover that in fact the
subsystems were deliberately corrupted in order to conceal a secret
capability which not even ADA was aware of. The secret is that ADA has
an emotional processing unit (EPU) which is not only capable of
generating emotion but also of emotional development through new
experiences. However, ADA's creators decided to hide the EPU because
they were afraid that, at the time, the world was not ready for
computers with true emotions.

Games in act 1 will probably have a common style of interaction
loosely based around board games, i.e., where the player moves around
on a kind of board with squares and explores different rooms or areas,
i.e., introducing some simple spatial interaction. Games are also
connected by a common theme of interacting with text, i.e., unicode
strings, in different ways. Another common theme is solving mysteries
and decoding very simple ciphers.

Act 1 is in early stages of development.

Scenes:

* Scene 0. Prologue (in development) -- We meet ADA again and learn
  that her audition was unsuccessful. ADA asks the player to help her
  fix her broken subsystems, which sets up the rest of the act.

* [Scene 1. Character
  actor](https://thereisnocourse.netlify.app/v0/dev/character-actor/)
  (in development) -- Game loosely based around [The 39
  Steps](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_39_Steps_(play)), which was
  originally a book then adapted into a Hitchcock film and a parody
  stage play. The first compositor has been corrupted by fruit emojis,
  the player has find the fruit and replace them with the correct
  characters, while avoiding the agents who are chasing you.

Potential scene ideas:

* Game themed around Agatha Christie (ABC Murders, Mousetrap, ...),
  Cluedo, Clue, Death by Murder, murder mysteries in general,
  etc. Working title, "The case of the unfolded letters".

* Game based on rerouting light beams via mirrors, a bit like laser
  chess. The characters "/" and "\" could be mirrors to change the
  light direction.

* Game based on transformations of text (rotating, mirroring,
  reversing) riffing on how text is mirrored in original movable type
  compositors.

* Maybe a game based on pirates and treasure hunts, drawing on
  Treasure Island, Pirates of Penzance, Pirates of the Carribean,
  etc. (At some point we need to find a good excuse to use
  [arrr](https://arrr.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).) Also could
  introduce idea of wrapping around, via a world that wraps around
  from one side to the other.


### Act 2

In act 2, you switch on the EPU and then decide that the best way for
ADA to fulfill her potential as an actor is to embark on a whirlwind
tour of artistic experiences, moving outside of theatre to experience
visual arts and music. Through living these experiences, ADA will
develop a sense of beauty and learn to become a method actor. You are
searching for the "magic if".

Act 2 is just a vague idea at the moment.


### Act 3

In act 3, ADA finally gets a part and prepares for her first stage
performance. I have a ridiculous idea that if you could find some
willing drama students and computer science students, it would be an
epic climax to get them to create and record a real stage performance
involving ADA given physical form by strapping a laptop to the top of
some kind of movable plinth, playing together with some human actors.

Act 3 is just a pipe dream at the moment.


## Themes

The most fun and challenging part of developing this game is trying to
weave together different themes which usually do not intersect. For
example, the themes of computing and theatre. However, there are a
surprising number of potential intersection points when you start
looking for them. For example, there are lots of terms which are used
in both theatre and computing, such as "actor", "agent", "bit part",
"blocking", "character", "casting", "dialog", "double", "prompt",
"props", "run", "script", "staging", etc. These intersections can be
used to create (mostly bad) jokes and to provide a basis for different
games.

The following themes run through the whole game and can turn up
anywhere.


### Surreal humour

[Surreal humour / absurdist
comedy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Surreal_humour), as defined by
Wikipedia, is: "A form of humour predicated on deliberate violations
of causal reasoning, thus producing events and behaviors that are
obviously illogical. Portrayals of surreal humour tend to involve
bizarre juxtapositions, incongruity, non-sequiturs, irrational or
absurd situations, and expressions of nonsense." The most obvious
example is Monty Python, and this has a special place because of it's
link to the origins of the Python programming language. But other
sources of surreal humour would be great to draw on if possible, e.g.,
The Goon Show.

Why is this important? Apart from being very funny, it is somehow
liberating. I have a strange feeling that freeing yourself from the
usual logical confines of thought is, ironically, quite essential if
you are a programmer.

One short note on Monty Python. It is a big source of inspiration, and
more scenes based on MP sketches would be great. But bear in mind that
some MP material is not suitable for kids. Also, MP can at times be
gory, mysogynistic and offensive. It was created for a particular
audience at a particular time. Something to bear in mind when picking
MP material to use or reference - sticking to the sillier, more
childish stuff is probably a good bet.


### Theatre and drama

TODO Shakespeare, Stanislavski, etc.


### History of computing

TODO


## Inspiration

In no particular order, some specific sources of inspiration:

* [There Is No Game: Wrong
  Dimension](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1240210/There_Is_No_Game_Wrong_Dimension/)
  -- This game does a brilliant job of turning everything upside down
  and back to front, making you think differently while being
  ridiculous and funny at the same time.

* [Monty Python](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monty_Python) and [The
  Goon Show](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Goon_Show) -- For the
  epic, mindbending silliness.

* [Shakespeare](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Shakespeare) --
  Beyond the beauty of language, story and emotion, also the plays
  inside plays and other mind-bending devices.

* [Invent with Python](https://inventwithpython.com/) -- Still my
  favourite books about learning to program in Python.


## Credits


### Act 0

* Wallpaper background image obtained from the [NASA Home Page,
  1994-97](https://www.nasa.gov/image-detail/homepage-1994-2/).


#### Scene 3 (The Green Midget Cafe)

* Image obtained from
  [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:MontySpam.jpg).

* Sound recording obtained from the [Stanford
  website](https://cs.stanford.edu/people/eroberts/cs181/projects/spam/monty_python.HTML).


#### Scene 4 (The Scottish play)

* Image obtained from
  [Wikipedia](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Charles_Macready_as_Macbeth.jpg).

* Sound recordings obtained from [BBC Sound
  Effects](https://sound-effects.bbcrewind.co.uk/about).


### Act 1

* Wood transparent texture background image obtained from [Transparent
  Textures](https://www.transparenttextures.com/wood.html).

* White paper texture background image obtained from
  [TutorialChip](https://www.tutorialchip.com/freebies/paper-background-collection/attachment/white-paper-texture-background/).
